feat: Boilerplate of new Preact-powered frontend (#1132)
Nix-Security-WG/nix-security-tracker: frontend/README.md

# Frontend (Preact/Vite UI)

This directory contains the new frontend for the Nixpkgs security tracker, served at `/ui-v2/`. It coexists with the existing Django-rendered views.

## Prerequisites

All tooling is provided through the project's Nix shell. From the repository root:

```console
nix-shell
```

This gives you:
- `node` and `npm` (from `pkgs.nodejs`)
- `biome` (from `pkgs.biome` — **not** installed via npm)
- Frontend dependencies are automatically installed on shell entry

## Development

Start Django and the Vite dev server:

```console
# Terminal 1: Django (from repo root, inside nix-shell)
manage runserver

# Terminal 2: Vite asset server (from frontend/)
cd frontend

> npm run dev

Reviewer: Yeah I wonder if we should just reintroduce the Procfile instead...

With Django running on port 8000:

```console
npm run generate-api
```

This fetches the live schema and regenerates the TypeScript client.

For offline/CI usage (from a saved schema file):

```console
# Save schema once:
curl http://localhost:8000/api/schema/ > schema.yaml

# Generate from local file:
npm run generate-api:local
```

### Schema transformer

The file `orval-transformer.ts` patches the OpenAPI schema before code generation to fix
naming collisions caused by drf-spectacular's generated schema names (e.g., `Status` object
vs `StatusEnum`). If you see "Duplicate schema names" errors after API changes, the
transformer may need updating.

### Why gitignored?

- **Single source of truth**: the OpenAPI schema is the authority; generated code is derived
- **Clean diffs**: PRs show only meaningful changes, not hundreds of generated lines
- **Always fresh**: nix-shell entry ensures dependencies are installed; you regenerate on demand
- **No stale code risk**: if you forget to regenerate, TypeScript will catch mismatches at compile time

### First time setup / after pulling

If `src/api/generated/` is empty and you need it:

```console
# Ensure Django is running, then:

> npm run generate-api

Reviewer: Sigh, every time I see this sort of manual dependency chain I get more convinced it's time for a native service management in shells. (Has nothing to do with how you did this, just a rant on the side.)

Can't we hack this together to be slightly more ergonomic? When I try this at my keyboard, I bet half of it will fail because I forgot steps. Maybe some of them can be automated?

```

## Linting and formatting

This project uses [Biome](https://biomejs.dev/) for both linting and formatting.

> **Important**: The `biome` binary comes from `pkgs.biome` in the Nix shell, NOT from npm.
> This avoids FHS/glibc compatibility issues that Nix environments have with native npm binaries.
> Do **not** add `@biomejs/biome` to `package.json`.

> ### Commands

Reviewer: Do we really need this explicitly in the shell? It's run as part of `format` already.

# Frontend ([Preact](https://preactjs.com/) / [Vite](https://vite.dev/) UI)

> The new frontend for the Nixpkgs security tracker, served at `/ui-v2/`. It

Reviewer: Please reformat as one line per sentence

coexists with the existing Django-rendered views.

## Development

Either start the whole dev stack (Django,
workers, and the Vite dev server) with `hivemind` or just the Vite dev server with `npm run dev`

Django serves the page at <http://127.0.0.1:8000/ui-v2/> and
[django-vite](https://github.com/MrBin99/django-vite) injects the Vite dev server's assets for hot-reload.
In production it reads Vite's built `manifest.json` serves built assets: no separate dev server.

## API client generation ([Orval](https://orval.dev/))

The [TanStack Query](https://tanstack.com/query) client in `src/api/generated/`
is generated (and gitignored) from the OpenAPI schema using Orval. The schema is the
single source of truth. Regenerate it when the API changes.

From the live schema (with Django running) run `npm run generate-api`.

For offline/CI generation from a saved schema file, use

> `npm run generate-api:local` (reads `./schema.yaml`); the Nix frontend build does

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`npm run generate-api:local` (reads a schema generated with [drf-spectacular](https://github.com/tfranzel/drf-spectacular)); the Nix frontend build does
```

Reviewer: In fact we could simply expose that built file if somebody needs it (why would you do something *without* Nix?). So let's just remove the paragraph for now.

this automatically.

> `orval-transformer.ts` patches the schema before generation. Ideally, this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The schema is [fixed up before it's generated](./orval-transformer.ts). Ideally, this
```
